High in this video we're going to continue our look at Python optimizations and in particular we're
going to look at peephole optimizations which is just another variety of optimizations that happens.
Now these happen at compile time and of course your Python code gets compiled before it can run.
Right.
It doesn't get pre-compiled the way a typical you know C language for example might get compiled into
an executable.
You know once it gets linked this occurs as it's running but it does compile your code and it doesn't
have to recompile the same bit of code every time that your that code runs within the scope within the
context of running your application.
Every time you restart your application it may recompile.
But as long as your application is running Watson's once it's compiled a piece of code it's going to
keep using that compiled version of the code.
So certain things get optimized.
For example constant expressions and what I mean by that is let's say you have a piece of code that
assigns this value to a variable April 24 times 60.
Now if that line of code gets executed many many times during the lifetime of your program while it's
going to have to calculate 24 times 60 again and again and again.
So you might think as a developer while heck you know if it's going to do that I'm just going to put
the value 14:14 there.
But let's say that you know your line of code was minutes equals twenty four times sixty.
Well now if you read that from a readability standpoint it's easy to understand that.
OK well this means the number of minutes in a day.
Right.
Twenty four hours time 60 Minutes.
But if you were at a store you know if you were to say minutes equals 14 40 it might not be immediately
evident that this is the number of minutes in a day.
So it would be better if you could just leave 24 times 60.
But for optimization reasons if this line of code is going to run thousands of times then you may say
well I'm going to stow 14:14.
I'm going to write 14:14 there.
But in fact you don't have to do that.
Python will actually do that for us so we can leave our code is 24 times 60.
But when Python compiles this line of code it's actually going to replace it with 14:14 it's going to
calculate Y.
While this is a constant expression.
So it's safe to do that.
You know as your program is running this line of code 24 times 60 isn't going to change.
It's essentially a constant and so constant expressions or expressions that evaluate to a constant get
pre-calculated and Stone are also short sequences short sequences.
Lenth less than 20.
So sequence types things like lists tuples and strings will also get pre-calculated.
So for example this topple one comma two times five which evaluates to this long table here.
Well that's less than 20 in length.
And so that is also going to get pre-calculated and stoned.
Same thing with ABC times three that evaluates to ABC ABC ABC.
Again these are all constants and it's going to get pre-calculated and stored.
Same thing with this one.
Hello Plus world.
There is also a constant.
It's a constant string It's also less than 20 characters.
And that will also get pre-calculated and so on.
So every time those lines run it will use the pre-calculated values.
It will not really run or re-evaluate the expressions on the other hand.
You know the quick brown fox times 10.
Well that is more than 20 characters.
So that will not get stoned.
Right.
There's a tradeoff between you know storage and computation.
So how much overhead do you want to have by storing pre-calculated expressions versus the speed.
And so Python decides to do the tradeoff.
20 characters
OK the next type of peephole optimization will look at his membership tests.
And what I mean by membership test is something like this.
If he in this list one two three.
Now this list is actually a constant.
Yes lists are mutable.
But in this case this is all your code.
This is the string in your code.
While that is not going to change as your program is running you don't change you know your actual Python
code as the code is running.
So this is actually a constant expression.
Now if you had like variable names in here instead that would no longer apply because the variables
values could change and therefore you don't.
This list expressions evaluation could change.
So that doesn't apply but here this is just a constant.
So you know when that is encountered then Python is going to replace the constant mutable expression
by its immutable counterpart.
So for example it will transform essentially the list 1 to 3 into the top or 1 to 3 to the more efficient
for membership testing than lists.
So lists will get converted to topples and sets will get converted to frozen sets which are the immutable
counterpart of sets and will look at sets and frozen sets and lists and tuples and a lot more detail
later on in the schools.
And we're also going to look at this replacement in code just now just a little later in the video and
it might make a little more sense as to what's happening.
But before we do that I want to talk about set membership set membership is much faster than lists or
topical membership because sets are basically dictionaries.
It may not look like it but sets are basically implemented just like dictionaries are implemented in
Python so it is much faster to do a lookup of a dictionary right.
If I want to see is you know if e in the set.
One two three.
I want to see if something is in the set.
It's a dictionary lookup but when it's in a list or a top all you essentially have to sequentially move
through until you find what you're looking for or you don't find it so much easier using you all kind
of hash maps than using lists for membership testing.
So if you are ever in a situation in your code where you're writing something like if in this constant
list or this constant topple then you should really think hard and probably write it this way.
If e in the set.
One two three.
Now if it's a line of code that's going to get executed once and the list is short.
Yeah it doesn't really matter.
But you know if this is code that's going to get executed again and again and again and again you really
start thinking about maybe using sets for membership.
Especially with constant expressions instead of lists or topples.
So it is more efficient and will look at that in code and will do that right now.
So let's start by looking at some of the peephole optimizations with constant expressions.
So we'll create a function that's called my func and first thing will set a call to that say 24 times
60 then will do B will make that a top all that's repeated so times 5 right and that's the top or one
comma to come one come up to come one come to 5 times.
So the 10 elements then wold say C is equal to some string with say ABC times 3.
Then we'll do another string will do a b times 11.
So this is now going to be a string that will be 22 characters long.
So that should not get pre-calculated and Staun because that is more than 20 characters and we can look
at another string if you want.
The quick brown fox and will do that.
Times 5 let's say.
And lastly we'll look at let's say a list containing no maybe a and b two strings and we'll multiply
that by three.
So this will be a list of six elements in that list.
However if a list is mutable it's not a constant technically.
So that list is not constant.
So that also is not going to get calculated.
OK so we executed that block of code which means that Python went through and actually compiled it.
So now we can look at.
What are the constants that are associated with that function.
So to do that we can look at this kind of arcane piece of code and we'll get back into these kinds of
expressions when we look at object programming with the double underscores and we'll see a lot more
functions that have double underscores as well as properties and so on.
So in this case we're looking at the property that contains all the constants that are associated with
that function.
Now that it's been compiled.
So when we do that you'll notice that we have in our 24 sixty one to all these are numbers right in
that code they're all present that string ABC is here.
The string AB is here.
But take a look at one two times five.
It's actually this right here.
So that was pre-calculated right.
The 24 times 60 which is 14 40 is right here.
So that was pre-calculated as well.
You'll find a B and you'll find 11 but you're not going to find a B 11 times because that's too long.
So it did not get pre-calculated.
Same thing with E.
You'll find the quick brown fox is present but not the quick brown fox 5 times and then the same thing
with the list.
It's is not pre-calculated as a comma become a comma become a comma.
B because that is not a constant expression right.
A list is a mutable object and therefore it's not constant.
So Python isn't going to pre-calculated OK.
So the next thing we're going to look at is the membership tests.
OK.
So what I mean by the membership tests I remember was using the in operator so we can go ahead and we
can look at my funk and we'll pass in let's say E which is going to be the element we want to search
for and if e in and we'll use the list.
One two three.
And then we'll pass.
We're not actually going to do anything with it.
And we'll run that piece of code.
So that function now has been compiled and we can go ahead and pull up the constants that are associated
with that function.
And you'll notice that with this membership testing the list 1 to 3 became the top or one to three.
So remember when we do list our and sequence memberships basically then the people optimizer is going
to transform any kind of mutable element into an immutable version of that element when it can.
So in particular lists become topples.
And if we were to do the same thing again but this time we'll use a set.
So we'll use the set one two three.
Then when we look at the associated constants you'll see that the cert 1 to 3 has become the frozen
set.
One two three.
Again we'll look at sets and frozen sets and a lot of detail in a later section.
So the last thing that I want to do is kind of a quick and dirty benchmark if we can call it Aben benchmarks
are more complicated you have to take averages run multiple times and so on we're just going to do some
basic timings basically on set membership versus let's say list membership or Popple membership and
ruga what I said in the slides a little earlier but set membership is very much more efficient than
searching inside a list or a tuple or a string for that matter.
OK.
So let's take a look at how we're going to do that.
Well we're going to import the string library.
We're going to get something out of the string library.
I'll show you a second.
We're going to import the time library we need to do timings.
OK so let's import those two libraries then I want to show you that the string library has some constants
that are pre-created for us like ASCII letters.
So if we look at that it's basically a string which remembers a sequence type that contains all the
ASCII characters lowercase and uppercase in that order.
Right.
So what we're going to do here is we're going to create a few variables.
We're going to create one which is going to be a list and that list is going to contain the ASCII letters.
Then we're going to create a Toughbook in the same way we're going to create a top.
And we're going to create it using the ASCII letters.
Now you'll notice that this is a I'm using the constructor for the list the list has multiple constructors
one of which it can handle basically strings and a string is just a sequence type.
But what it does when you pass it inside the constructor it takes every character in the string and
makes it an element of the list and then Same thing with topple which is just the immutable version
of a list.
Now we can also do that move a set so we can call the constructor for the set Brassington.
Also the string.
Now we'll look at sets and a lot more detail later.
But for now basically set is the set constructor is going to do the same thing it's going to take this
sequence of characters and it's going to create a set of those characters.
If they were repeating characters it would ignore them.
The cassettes did not contain repeating characters.
OK so we've now got each one of those.
Let's take a look at what they look like.
So the list is basically just the list.
Right.
Let me use the print statements so there will be a little more concise
care so we have the list then we have the couple.
OK.
So the top all it's basically exactly the same.
And you'll notice that the older of the elements in the list and in the top all are basically the same
as the older that we had in that string.
Right.
It maintains the owners and that's because lists and topples are ordered sequences on the other hand
set is not an ordered sequence.
So if we look at the set.
You'll notice that yes we have a set but there's no guarantee on the ordering of the elements inside
that set all the elements are then not repeated which they want anyway in this case.
But they are not repeated but they are in no particular order.
Just like a dictionary.
OK.
So the next thing we want to do is we want to basically run a test and we want to time that test where
we're going to look for a character inside the list and the top on the set.
And we want to see how long it takes to do that.
So we're going to write this method let's call it membership tests and we're going to pass in N which
is going to be the number of times we want to test for membership because obviously it goes so fast
that if we were just to try and time a single membership test we wouldn't be able to tell the difference.
Right so we get to just repeat that test many times and then we're also going to pass in the container
which is going to be what do we want to search What object do we want to search and we'll hand code
the object that we're searching for the string that we're searching for.
So for i in range and.
Right we're going to repeat this test end times and we're going to say if and let's pick some letter
in here maybe we'll pick p.
All right so let's look for P Actually maybe there's something more in the middle.
Let's go with far lower z.
OK.
So if the z is in the container.
OK so we're going to look at whatever that container is and the container could be a string.
It could be a list could be a top or could be a set could be a frozen set.
This operator will figure out how to find something in that particular container.
And that's one thing you'll notice with Python and we'll discuss that in more detail in the object or
section.
But Python is highly polymorphic.
So and that's you know in general how you use Python you don't try and constrain a variable to a specific
type.
What you're really interested in is a type that's going to have certain properties.
And in this case I don't care what you pasan you know as that second container this function doesn't
care as long as it supports the in operator.
That's the only thing that needs to support.
OK but again we'll get to that in later sections.
So if Z's in the container if we're just going to pass.
We're not actually going to do anything with that.
OK.
All right.
So let's go ahead and run some tests so time off counter.
That's going to be our start time then we're going to run membership test and we'll do that 10 million
times as well.
And the first one we're going to look at is the call list then we'll do and the equals time dot of counter
and then we will print and we'll say that this was for the list.
OK.
And the timing was there for and minus stuff that will give us the number of seconds that elapsed.
So let's go ahead and run that will take a little while to run.
Well if I am member of all men birth ship tests helps Fussball correctly.
OK.
So let's let that run
So for us running took 5.3 seconds so I'm going to copy this entire list this entire chunk of code and
now instead of doing the membership test in the list we're going to do it in the top row.
So this will be the timing for Toppo.
Let's run that's
and you want.
So you know I mean again this isn't the benchmark but it's about the same maybe a little faster.
But it could be a little slower in some cases too.
It's about the same.
And let's go ahead and run it once more.
But this time we're going to look at the set and this will be all set.
Let's run that.
And as you can see it takes half a second.
So really as you can see a lot lot faster doing set membership than doing top or list membership.
So whenever you can prefer using set membership.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.